<b> Plover-eBird-and-Banding-Analysis </b>

This project involves the curation of a dataset from the North American Bird Banding dataset at https://www.sciencebase.gov/catalog/item/60914db3d34e791692e13a22. The species targeted in this project are selected species of Plover: Piping Plover, Black-Bellied Plover, Wilson's Plover, Semipalmated Plover, and Snowy Plover. The datasets available for download via the sciencebase portal are split into 10 groups based on taxonomic order. Species targeted for this project were all contained within dataset 4 on the web ortal. Data was downloaded via CSV and filtered using powerquery in Excel to generate a subset containing only the desired species.

Sciencebase provides a series of reference datasets/lookup tables to accompany the datasets, which contain valuable metadata associated with codes used in the primary dataset. These lookup tables will be leveraged to enrich the extracted subset of data and generate a more complete table, which will include well-labeled metadata. Cleaning procedures were performed on the dataset: standardizing casing across strings + removing whitespace and newlines in select columns, correcting typos, standardizing dates, removing invalid data, and addressing missing data using various interpolation methods. Exploratory data analysis was also performed and is included as a separate pynb file.

Piping Plover emerged as the dominant species for banding efforts across North America. To further explore Piping Plover population in North America, data was obtained from eBird for all Piping Plover sightings since 1960. eBird data contains reported sightings by citizen scientists and includes observation counts, dates, breeding behavior, location, locality, time of observation, and a variety of free-text comments regarding the trip and species. The data provides valuable context around piping plover migration, breeding, and population status. Each entry has been vetted by eBird subject matter experts to ensure accuracy and reliability, and all non-vetted data was omitted per selection during download from eBird. In the pynb file attached to this project, the data was cleaned and pre-processed -- including removal of invalid data, addressing missing data, correcting typos, and standardizing data types and formatting.

The final output files were used to generate the Tableau dashboards in the links below (best viewed on desktop*)
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/mike.andersen5299/viz/PloverBandingDataDashboard/BandingDashboard 
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/mike.andersen5299/viz/eBirdPipingPloverDashboard/eBirdDashboard
